# www

My website first started out as a static Microsoft Frontpage website in late 2004. Around 2005-2006, I adapted it into PHP, rewrote some basic scripts, and modified free templates.

By early 2008, most of this site was generated by PHP scripts, with small portions of static HTML. By 2010, most subpages used various different templates.

In 2012, I switched from using free subdomains to a paid domain.
This is a huge improvement over relying on providers who hijack your subdomain after you get enough traffic.

In late 2013, it was being rewritten in Jekyll. The homepage used the _Twitter on GitHub_ template, but subpages still had different themes.

In 2015, it was recreated with Bootstrap. Old features were reimplemented, while new features were implemented too.

Since 2019, scripts are also being ported to TypeScript and Svelte.

In 2024 and 2025, migrating from sass to sass-embedded significantly sped up build times, while migrating from webpack to rspack gave a slight improvement.
esbuild is faster than rspack but does not support `optimization.splitChunks`, resulting in much larger total JavaScript bundle sizes, but it is useful for faster CSS compilation.
Migrating from Jekyll to Eleventy sped up builds further and removed the dependency on Ruby.

## Amnesia

_History is not retained!_

In the past, files would be stored on some web server without any version control. Also, directory listings were private.

Unlike code for other projects, history is not as important for this website. The history in this repo may be squashed at any time to reclaim storage space.

## Updating Dependencies

Dependencies can be updated:

- `package.json`: `npm up --save`
- Vendored JS packages
  - `simperium`: `v0.1` (last updated: 2023-01-30)
  - `PlayerIOClient`: `v3.9.0` from `PlayerIO SDK.s2fG8FIPhRjoY9VN8wEadg.zip` (last updated: 2025-07-29)
